Hello and welcome back.
This week you learn
about object detection.
This is one of the areas of computer
vision that's just exploding and
is working so much better than
just a couple of years ago.
In order to build up to object detection,
you first learn about object localization.
Let's start by defining what that means.
You're already familiar with the image
classification task where an algorithm
looks at this picture and might be
responsible for saying this is a car.
So that was classification.
The problem you learn to build in your
network to address later on this video is
classification with localization.
Which means not only do you have
to label this as say a car but
the algorithm also is responsible for
putting a bounding box,
or drawing a red rectangle around
the position of the car in the image.
So that's called the classification
with localization problem.
Where the term localization refers
to figuring out where in the picture
is the car you've detective.
Later this week,
you then learn about the detection problem
where now there might be multiple
objects in the picture and
you have to detect them all and
and localized them all.
And if you're doing this for
an autonomous driving application,
then you might need to
detect not just other cars,
but maybe other pedestrians and
motorcycles and maybe even other objects.
So you'll see that later this week.
So in the terminology we'll use this week,
the classification and
the classification of localization
problems usually have one object.
Usually one big object in the middle of
the image that you're trying to recognize
or recognize and localize.
In contrast, in the detection problem
there can be multiple objects.
And in fact, maybe even multiple
objects of different categories
within a single image.
So the ideas you've learned about for
image classification will be useful for
classification with localization.
And that the ideas you learn for
localization will then turn out
to be useful for detection.
So let's start by talking about
classification with localization.
You're already familiar with the image
classification problem, in which you might
input a picture into a ConfNet with
multiple layers so that's our ConfNet.
And this results in a vector
features that is fed
to maybe a softmax unit that
outputs the predicted clause.
So if you are building a self driving car,
maybe your object categories
are the following.
Where you might have a pedestrian, or
a car, or a motorcycle, or a background.
This means none of the above.
So if there's no pedestrian,
no car, no motorcycle,
then you might have an output background.
So these are your classes, they have
a softmax with four possible outputs.
So this is the standard
classification pipeline.
How about if you want to localize
the car in the image as well.
To do that,
you can change your neural network to have
a few more output units
that output a bounding box.
So, in particular, you can have
the neural network output four
more numbers, and
I'm going to call them bx, by, bh, and bw.
And these four numbers parameterized
the bounding box of the detected object.
So in these videos, I am going to use
the notational convention that the upper
left of the image, I'm going to
denote as the coordinate (0,0),
and at the lower right is (1,1).
So, specifying the bounding box,
the red rectangle requires
specifying the midpoint.
So that’s the point bx,
by as well as the height,
that would be bh,
as well as the width,
bw of this bounding box.
So now if your training set contains
not just the object cross label,
which a neural network is
trying to predict up here, but
it also contains four additional numbers.
Giving the bounding box then you can use
supervised learning to make your algorithm
outputs not just a class label but
also the four parameters
to tell you where is the bounding
box of the object you detected.
So in this example the ideal bx might
be about 0.5 because this is about
halfway to the right to the image.
by might be about 0.7 since it's about
maybe 70% to the way down to the image.
bh might be about 0.3 because
the height of this red square is
about 30% of the overall
height of the image.
And bw might be about 0.4
let's say because the width
of the red box is about 0.4 of
the overall width of the entire image.
So let's formalize this a bit more in
terms of how we define the target label
y for this as a supervised learning task.
So just as a reminder these
are our four classes, and
the neural network now outputs those
four numbers as well as a class label,
or maybe probabilities
of the class labels.
So, let's define the target
label y as follows.
Is going to be a vector where
the first component pc is going to be,
is there an object?
So, if the object is, classes 1,
2 or 3, pc will be equal to 1.
And if it's the background class, so
if it's none of the objects you're
trying to detect, then pc will be 0.
And pc you can think of
that as standing for
the probability that there's an object.
Probability that one of the classes
you're trying to detect is there.
So something other than
the background class.
Next if there is an object,
then you wanted to output bx,
by, bh and bw, the bounding box for
the object you detected.
And finally if there is an object,
so if pc is equal to 1,
you wanted to also output c1, c2 and
c3 which tells us is it the class 1,
class 2 or class 3.
So is it a pedestrian,
a car or a motorcycle.
And remember in the problem
we're addressing
we assume that your image
has only one object.
So at most, one of these
objects appears in the picture,
in this classification
with localization problem.
So let's go through a couple of examples.
If this is a training set image,
so if that is x, then y will be
the first component pc will be equal to 1
because there is an object, then bx, by,
by, bh and
bw will specify the bounding box.
So your labeled training set will
need bounding boxes in the labels.
And then finally this is a car,
so it's class 2.
So c1 will be 0 because
it's not a pedestrian,
c2 will be 1 because it is car,
c3 will be 0 since it is not a motorcycle.
So among c1, c2 and c3 at most
one of them should be equal to 1.
So that's if there's
an object in the image.
What if there's no object in the image?
What if we have a training
example where x is equal to that?
In this case, pc would be equal to 0, and
the rest of the elements of this,
will be don't cares,
so I'm going to write question
marks in all of them.
So this is a don't care, because if
there is no object in this image,
then you don't care what bounding box
the neural network outputs as well as
which of the three objects,
c1, c2, c3 it thinks it is.
So given a set of label training examples,
this is how you will construct x,
the input image as well as y,
the cost label both for
images where there is an object and
for images where there is no object.
And the set of this will then
define your training set.
Finally, next let's
describe the loss function
you use to train the neural network.
So the ground true label was y and
the neural network outputs some yhat.
What should be the loss be?
Well if you're using squared error
then the loss can be (y1 hat- y1)
squared + (y2 hat- y2) squared +
...+( y8 hat- y8) squared.
Notice that y here has eight components.
So that goes from sum of the squares
of the difference of the elements.
And that's the loss if y1=1.
So that's the case where
there is an object.
So y1= pc.
So, pc = 1,
that if there is an object in the image
then the loss can be the sum of
squares of all the different elements.
The other case is if y1=0,
so that's if this pc = 0.
In that case the loss can be
just (y1 hat-y1) squared,
because in that second case, all of the
rest of the components are don't care us.
And so all you care about is
how accurately is the neural
network ourputting pc in that case.
So just a recap, if y1 = 1,
that's this case,
then you can use squared error to
penalize square deviation from
the predicted, and
the actual output of all eight components.
Whereas if y1 = 0, then the second to
the eighth components I don't care.
So all you care about is how
accurately is your neural network
estimating y1, which is equal to pc.
Just as a side comment for those of
you that want to know all the details,
I've used the squared error just
to simplify the description here.
In practice you could probably
use a log like feature loss for
the c1, c2, c3 to the softmax output.
One of those elements usually
you can use squared error or
something like squared error for
the bounding box coordinates and
if a pc you could use something
like the logistics regression loss.
Although even if you use squared
error it'll probably work okay.
So that's how you get a neural network
to not just classify an object but
also to localize it.
The idea of having a neural network
output a bunch of real numbers
to tell you where things are in a picture
turns out to be a very powerful idea.
In the next video I want to share with
you some other places where this idea of
having a neural network output a set of
real numbers, almost as a regression task,
can be very powerful to use elsewhere
in computer vision as well.
So let's go on to the next video.